This documentation shows how to import historical data from PagerDuty… (#358)
port-labs/port-docs: docs/build-your-software-catalog/sync-data-to-catalog/webhook/examples/pagerduty.md

:::

Done! any change that happens to your services or incidents in PagerDuty will trigger a webhook event to the webhook URL provided by Port. Port will parse the events according to the mapping and update the catalog entities accordingly.

## Import PagerDuty Historical Data

> This documentation guides you on how to use the provided Bash script to fetch data from the PagerDuty API and push it to the Port platform. The script extracts services and incidents from PagerDuty, and sends them to Port as Microservice and Incident entities respectively.

Author: Done

## Prerequisites

> We will continue utilizing the same blueprint mentioned earlier to create the following webhook configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example will use the same blueprint provided in the [Prerequisites](ADD DEEPLINK TO THE PREVIOUS PREREQUISITES SECTION HERE) section of the previous example. In addition, the example will use the following webhook configuration:
```

<details>
<summary>PagerDuty Webhook configuration for Historical Data</summary>

<PagerDutyWebhookHistoryConfig/>
</details>

<details>
<summary> PagerDuty Bash Script for Historical Data </summary>

> <PagerDutyWebhookShellConfig/>

Reviewer 2: Call it PagerDutyScript, any way is needed (Title, filename, here etc)

</details>

:::note

> There are slight changes to the webhook, and since is probably a one time run, you may want to start off running this to import all your incidents and services into Port

Author: I used an existing data from port, and it does not have the properties listed in the old webhook configuration. For example 

`{
    "services": [
        {
            "id": "PWJAGSD",
            "name": "Port Internal Service",
            "description": "Description for test service",
            "created_at": "2023-05-15T16:55:46+03:00",
            "updated_at": "2023-05-15T21:38:20+03:00",
            "status": "warning",
            "teams": [],
            "alert_creation": "create_alerts_and_incidents",
            "addons": [],
            "scheduled_actions": [],
            "support_hours": null,
            "last_incident_timestamp": "2023-05-15T17:57:11Z",
            "escalation_policy": {
                "id": "P7LVMYP",
                "type": "escalation_policy_reference",
                "summary": "Test Escalation Policy",
                "self": "https://api.pagerduty.com/escalation_policies/P7LVMYP",
                "html_url": "https://getport-io.pagerduty.com/escalation_policies/P7LVMYP"
            },
            "incident_urgency_rule": {
                "type": "constant",
                "urgency": "high"
            },
            "acknowledgement_timeout": null,
            "auto_resolve_timeout": null,
            "integrations": [],
            "type": "service",
            "summary": "Port Internal Service",
            "self": "https://api.pagerduty.com/services/PWJAGSD",
            "html_url": "https://getport-io.pagerduty.com/service-directory/PWJAGSD"
        },
        {
            "id": "P69HX03",
            "name": "Port Outbound Service",
            "description": "Writing test integration with Port",
            "created_at": "2023-05-15T21:10:56+03:00",
            "updated_at": "2023-05-15T21:38:56+03:00",
            "status": "warning",
            "teams": [],
            "alert_creation": "create_alerts_and_incidents",
            "addons": [],
            "scheduled_actions": [],
            "support_hours": null,
            "last_incident_timestamp": "2023-05-15T18:36:51Z",
            "escalation_policy": {
                "id": "P7LVMYP",
                "type": "escalation_policy_reference",
                "summary": "Test Escalation Policy",
                "self": "https://api.pagerduty.com/escalation_policies/P7LVMYP",
                "html_url": "https://getport-io.pagerduty.com/escalation_policies/P7LVMYP"
            },
            "incident_urgency_rule": {
                "type": "constant",
                "urgency": "high"
            },
            "acknowledgement_timeout": null,
            "auto_resolve_timeout": null,
            "integrations": [],
            "type": "service",
            "summary": "Port Outbound Service",
            "self": "https://api.pagerduty.com/services/P69HX03",
            "html_url": "https://getport-io.pagerduty.com/service-directory/P69HX03"
        }
    ],
    "limit": 25,
    "offset": 0,
    "total": null,
    "more": false
}`

:::

## How to Run the script

This script requires two configuration values:

> 1. PD_TOKEN: Your PagerDuty API token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. `PD_TOKEN`: your PagerDuty API token;
```

> 2. PORT_URL: Your Port webhook URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. `PORT_URL`: your Port webhook URL.
```

> Then run this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then trigger the script by running:
```

> ```json showLineNumbers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash showLineNumbers
```

bash pagerduty_to_port.sh
```

> This script fetches services and incidents from PagerDuty and sends them to Port.

Author: Done

:::tip

> The script writes the JSON payload for each service and incident to a file named output.json. This can be useful for debugging if you encounter any issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The script writes the JSON payload for each service and incident to a file named `output.json`. This can be useful for debugging if you encounter any issues.
```

:::

> Done! you can now pull out your historical data into Port. Port will parse the events according to the mapping and update the catalog entities accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Done! you can now import historical data from PagerDuty into Port. Port will parse the events according to the mapping and update the catalog entities accordingly.
```

:::

Done! any change that happens to your services or incidents in PagerDuty will trigger a webhook event to the webhook URL provided by Port. Port will parse the events according to the mapping and update the catalog entities accordingly.

## Import PagerDuty Historical Data

In this example you are going to use the provided Bash script to fetch data from the PagerDuty API and ingest it to Port.

The script extracts services and incidents from PagerDuty, and sends them to Port as microservice and incident entities respectively.

### Prerequisites

We will continue utilizing the same blueprint mentioned earlier to create the following webhook configuration.

<details>
<summary>PagerDuty webhook configuration for historical data</summary>

Remember to update the `WEBHOOK_SECRET` with the real secret you receive after subscribing to the webhook in PagerDuty.
<PagerDutyWebhookHistory/>

</details>

<details>
<summary> PagerDuty Bash script for historical data </summary>

<PagerDutyScript/>

</details>

> :::note

Reviewer: Remove this note
